This is test, test, test.
Okay, now.
Test, test, one, two, three, one, two, three, test.
This is September 26th.
We're at 502 Crestwood at the dining table at Jack Arane's beautiful home, chatting with him about his A&M experiences.
And honey is taking notes down here.
To begin with, Jack, introduce yourself by giving a biographical summary of your parents, where'd you grow up, where'd you go to high school.
Tell about yourself before you went away to college.
My name is Jack Raines, class of 60, Thomas Jefferson Haskell in Port Arthur, 56, born to Otis B. Raines and Margie Morris in Waco, Texas, 23 November 37.
Dad was a pioneer man for Duncan Coffee Company out of Houston, and he opened up new territories.
When I would go to a new school, which was at least every two years, they would always ask, is your father a preacher?
Because they'd look at my transcript, and we moved around.
And so preacher's kids and salesman's kids, Dad would go and hire a group of people, get that set up, then go to the next thing.
So we lived...
in Waxahachie Temple, Wichita Falls, Orange, and Port Arthur.
And you gain a set of skills when you move a lot.
When I took psychology and they explained the pecking order, I understood it because I soon learned that when you go to a new town, the best thing that you can do is find the meanest guy in town and challenge him to a fight after school because either you're going to whip him and everybody's going to leave you alone or you're going to get whipped and everybody's going to say, gee, I'm scared of that guy.
I've got to take a break.
Yes, dear.
Keep going.
So the worst thing that can happen is you lose and then everybody else in the pecking order who was afraid of the guy to begin with, it at least gets you to number two.
And it was a lot easier than starting on the other end and working your way up.
And that's held me in good stead through life because going about things a conventional way.
is not my style.
And I've analyzed that, and I think that's where that started.
The other thing is also trying to tell a lot of jokes, because if people laugh, you're going to fit in easier.
And I think that's why I developed a reputation of being the class clown.
But in any event, I was blessed with a wonderful father and mother who my dad
His parents did not have a high school education and valued education and dad graduated high school and always read and believed in self-improvement.
My mother was one of 13 children and
in a farm in East Texas, announced to her mother and dad one night at the supper table that she had about to graduate high school and she had decided she wanted to go to the new college they were starting over in Nacogdoches.
And so Mama and Papa, she said, talked about it every night.
They could hear them because, you know, everyone had a little old clapboard house.
And three days later at breakfast, Papa said,
Sister, you be ready tomorrow morning.
We're going to college.
So at 3 a.m.
they were up, hitched up the team and went and traveled all day and camped outside of Nacogdoches.
The next morning they got up early and mother said we dusted ourselves off real good.
pulled up, and Papa asked who was in charge, and they directed him to the man that was the new president.
He gave him $26 in butter and egg money and his daughter, and they said, we'll handle it from here.
And that's how Mother got an associate's degree and became a school teacher.
So she and Dad had a dream that all kids would go to college, and all of us did, and graduated, and my father said that was his biggest accomplishment.
Why did you end up at Texas A&M?
How did that come about?
Well, I was a marginal athlete, and all the Aggies in the region, they kept their eye out for boys.
And starting your sophomore, junior year, you know, they'd talk to you, and they would get you a summer job.
and there were some folks named Ellerby who were in the steel business down there and I hung steel for them.
And there was a sheriff named C.H.
Charlie Myers who was the sheriff of Jefferson County who had never graduated from A&M, but I think he had consumed a lot of beer at Uncle Ed's.
And he was the local BMOC, big man on campus down there, and a guy named Gordon LaBoeuf and Jack Hawthorne.
LaBoeuf was from Port Natchez, Hawthorne was from Niederland, Sammy Myers was from Beaumont, was a high jumper and a basketball player, and I were loaded up in a sheriff's car and taken to Houston, Texas to see A&M play Rice.
And A&M came back and scored three times in the last few minutes and won.
And we had a stake at the Confederate House.
We were supposed to go to Yale College Inn, but it was too crowded.
So we went to this other place called the Confederate House where a guy named Garden Edge had started a stake house.
And, you know, I was sold.
I'd never been on the A&M campus, didn't know anything about it.
So they started me off in Junction, Texas.
I was told to report out there because they looked at my academic transcript from Haskell.
And you have to remember, Haskell, at that time, the catalog, if you view the catalog in 1956, the requirements were that you be a resident of the state, a Haskell graduate, and free of infectious and contagious diseases.
And no felony convictions.
And the coach said, look, two out of three isn't bad.
You ought to let the boy in and give him a chance.
So I go off to Junction, Texas, and made the acquaintance of Buddy Denton and D. Kutich, two men who had a hell of an impact on my life.
For some reason, they saw something in me and took me under their wing.
And I got, we had freshman English, freshman math, and a hell of a lot of physical education.
Now, two years before, Coach Bryant had taken the team out there, the famous Junction boys, and then our class was the last class that they would let you take kids that were coming in and go up there and do that.
But Kutesh and Denton, who were the athletic,
I think they were called the Scholastic Coaches or something.
That was my introduction, and they got me started on the right footpath.
I said, the Ellerbees wanted me to be, and said, you know, the Corps is the greatest thing, so I said, you know, I didn't want to live in an athletic dorm, so I started off living in the Corps.
Which outfit were you?
It was an Air Force outfit, and they changed it every year.
And the last year, there was Squadron 17, but I think that first year, it was Squadron 11.
How did you get from...
junction back to college station well back to college station uh you know i i had i'd been working every summer i went i started off i'd worked steel i'd worked tow boats i'd been in the merchant marine and i saved my money and i you know i owned a car uh okay uh i had a 48 plymouth with 21 coats a hand rub maroon lacquer and rolled and pleated leather interior and i
three-quarter race Chrysler Hemi head and a Dodge truck transmission.
And it was a bad motor scooter.
But so I went up to Cottage Station, as we were talking about earlier.
And, you know, I found out that if you were, you know, you got your clothes to wear.
I had everything I owned in a ditty bag, you know.
And you're old enough to know what a ditty bag is.
And I got up there and got my uniforms and everything.
And so you're supposed to go and get a room assignment in the athletic dorm.
Well, I was going to live with Cory, you know, macho man.
And, you know, it was a lot of fun, but I was late.
And about the, you know,
Oh, I think it was the second week I came dragging in there, and Smokey Harper, who was the trainer, and Smokey, who gave the world those memorable words, the only goddamn thing good at A&M's are trees, and they're cutting them down.
And Smokey, his other great contribution was
You're not hurt, boy, get up.
And unless you had a compound fracture, you were going to hear that.
He believed in the power of positive thinking and self-healing.
And so he said, now, you need to come here.
He said, I'm not going to let you go out there.
And he said, I'm just going to show you that you were here today.
And he said, you're not worth a damn.
Nobody's going to know whether you were here or not anyway.
He said, I'm going to tell you something.
You go get your shit and you move over here to Hart Hall.
He said, I've got a room in Hart Hall and that's where you're going to be because if you, you need to decide if you want to be a soldier boy or you want to try to be an athlete.
That's how I got moved to Hart Hall.
And so that spring I was running,
Colonel Anderson was a track coach then.
What event?
Back then they tried you in everything and I ran a quarter mile and a half mile.
Did a little bit of broad.
I had jumped some and I asked you, boy, I was not anywhere near a college.
Well, I wasn't near a college competitor in anything, but, you know, it was obvious.
I couldn't get over the bar where they started.
So I was out there and ripped a hamstring loose again, and so I hobbled around, and so they said, okay, you need to rehabilitate and you go to cross country.
And that's when we ran the cross-country track, was around where all the housing was over there.
And one of the houses you ran by was Chief Hickmans, who was chief of the KK, and his son was on the freshman track team.
I'd gotten acquainted with a father.
I didn't know it was Hickman's father at the time.
I was, freshman couldn't have a car on campus.
Well, I'd brought my car up there and I'd found a guy that first week when they said, you can't have a car on campus.
One of the guys was a day duck.
He said, look, you can park it over to our house.
I said, we got a place out there in the backyard.
You can pull it out and keep it over there.
So I thought that was great.
So I was going to go home, so I went over to his house with him, got my car, and I was coming back on campus to load my stuff in down at Hart Hall, and that's before they closed all the streets off.
As I came by the YMCA, and that's the KKs were down there in the basement of the thing, a guy looking over his shoulder, talking to someone,
turned and walked into the side of my car.
I didn't hit him.
He walked into the side of my car, and it was kind of like a pinball machine.
He bounced in between that and the other car, and it broke his hip.
And the theory was, you're a freshman driving on campus, and if you hadn't been there, this accident wouldn't have happened.
So you learned to say, yes, sir.
But my TAC officer down there, Colonel Melcher, he said, you know, you shouldn't throw the boy out of school because Hickman's the damn dummy.
He walked into the side of his car.
So they said, you know, don't even have the car in College Station.
Take it home and leave it there.
And they put me on probation.
Now, that was the fall.
In the spring, I went on academic probation.
The next fall, I came back up, and I'd fallen under the influence of a bunch of baseball players.
Wayne Sharper, who later was the principal of the high school down here, where my kids went to school.
Donnie Hullum and Hogjaw Harrington.
And anything John Hall says about me, I want to have equal time because he's a lying son of a bitch.
And I want you to hear my side of the story.
Well, that crazy bunch of guys used to pull all kinds of pranks.
So we stormed a guy in the hall.
You know, with an athletic card, it only cost you, I think, a dime to get in.
But it wasn't a dime.
It was Mr. Putty.
It was Mr. Puttman.
We called him Putty, who we all dearly loved.
Later on, we sent him money when he was nine at the motion picture home up there.
We'd send one guy in and he'd pull the nails on the window and you'd run that window and you could hear that Mr. Buddy and start running.
Then there's how many of us could get in and scatter out through the thing.
Then we would go watch the movies during the week and write all of our materials and routines so that on Saturday when
The faculty and everyone came and Guyon Hall was full.
Well, they had the movie, but we did our entertaining acts.
In the middle of the movie, one of my favorites was when Hogjaw Harrington and Donnie Hullum, they had an Earl Flynn film, and they came across the stage with their helmet liners and wooden swords and garbage candle heads, sword fighting going across.
Well, that, you know, brought the house down.
putty got to chase them and they would run up on the gridiron up on the gridiron over it in hullum to make a he got trapped so he jumps on this rope not knowing that it counterbalanced the screen so as he comes down the screen goes up in here so that brought the house down but they could never recognize those guys so the night that we stormed guy and hall i came rolling around the corner
and ran into Putty and Colonel Melcher and all three of us went down the middle of the lobby.
So I went on probation for that and then my junior year I was on probation and they threw me out in the spring.
H.L.
Heaton said you have cut more classes than anyone we've ever had and while you have maintained a
a one-point average, that was a 3-2-1 deal.
He said, you're not serious about this and you're out of A&M.
So I went to Lamar Tesh in Beaumont for my junior year and my mother was really upset with me.
And she went to see Earl Rudder unbeknownst to me.
And General Rudder called me back
I got a telegram to be in his office at 0800 hours on such and such a date, and I showed up, and you have not had your ass chewed unless you have had some personal attention from Earl Rudder, who went through my file there, and he said, he said, Raines, I want to tell you, he said, this is not an academic file, this is a rap sheet.
He said, I've never seen anyone who in a short period of time could compile this record.
I said, no wonder HL threw you out of here.
You deserve to be thrown out.
And then he told me, and I told this story.
They invited me back to be a commencement speaker a few years ago, and I told this story, and Margaret Rudder was up there, and she got the biggest kick out of it.
Every time I see her, she reminds me of that.
She told me later, she said, Earl came home and told me about this.
He told me, he said, somewhere reigns in the United States Army is a master sergeant who is one year from retirement and he got drunk or something and did something and said they have busted him back to corporal and told him that he keeps his nose clean, they'll let him retire as a master sergeant.
Said, now this is a man who has invested 20 something years in a career and he has seen it all hang by a thread.
He said, now, if you mess with me and you look cross-eyed up here, I'm gonna see that you're thrown out.
And I will further see that your draft board is aware of the fact that you have taken money from us in this ROTC program and abused your privileges up here.
And I will see that you're drafted.
And then I will locate that sergeant and further see that you're assigned to him.
And I will personally call him and tell him that my name is General Earl Rudder and that his entire retirement depends upon making your miserable life more miserable.
Do we understand each other?
Yes, sir.
Well, now, I left his office with a renewed dedication and focus on academic excellence.
And my senior year, you can go pull my transcript, you will notice there is a marked difference.
And H.L.
Heaton, who approved my degree plan, advised me within four days of the drop in ad,
that while I was going to have the necessary hours to graduate, I did not have the requisite courses.
And I needed a management course, which unfortunately, the ad date had passed, and so I was not going to be able to graduate.
But I got in touch with the University of Texas that had a correspondence course, drove to Austin, talked to the professor, told him my situation.
He said, if you will turn in three lessons a week
each week and take this final, I will get it down to H.L.
Heaton.
Now, I'm carrying 21 hours my senior year, and I didn't load on a three-hour correspondence course under that.
Long story short, I made it, took the final,
And I told him the situation, and I said, I'm not sure Mr. Heaton's going to accept it.
And he said, well, we're going to East Texas to Tyler.
I'll drive through College Station and deliver it myself.
And he brought it down and got a receipt from H.L.
Heaton for that course, which he mailed to me.
And I have somewhere in the bowels of all my papers a letter from H.L.
Heaton.
And you know the normal letter that you get?
I didn't get the normal letter.
I got a letter that said, Mr. Raines, after reviewing the catalog at the time of your matriculation and the statutes of the law of the state of Texas and the policies of this university and reviewing your academic record, I can find no reason to deny you the degree.
And I can't blame HL Eaton a bit.
You know, he had every reason to feel that way about me.
So I graduated, and I told him at commencement, I said, now all you parents that are here with all these guys that were worried about whether or not you were going to get certified, I want you to know I am the patron saint of anyone that's ever carried the anchor out of here.
And there is hope for you.
We had a whole cheering section there.
Let's go back though and go through kind of chronologically.
When you got to A&M that first fall, how did you get assigned to a unit?
Where did, how did you know where to go?
Hal Haskell, you went through registration.
I don't know.
They just, I guess they, you know.
You got thrown in a pot.
I don't have any clear recollection.
Do you remember why it was Air Force instead of Army?
Oh, they ask you if you want to be Air Force or Army, and I had enough sense to know I didn't want to carry an M1 out there.
I wanted to fly, and I went into and qualified for the flight program.
That was my dream.
Right, and then you get in Hart Hall where the athletes were, the non-football.
Well, yeah, the spring sports.
And who was your roommate that freshman year?
Well, he was a guy from Port Arthur who was up there who was a runner.
Did you all go through corps?
Oh, yeah.
We, you know, every now and then we'd march and people would shout, give them a rope, it's a lynch mob, you know.
And look, there were two of them actually in step with each other and said, that's an accident.
They gave us a hard time.
We were not the most military outfit.
Where did you all eat?
Duncan.
In Duncan?
We had training tables in Duncan.
Did you fall out and march to Duncan?
No, it was more like everyone just ambled over and kind of got there, because generally you're coming from practice.
What was the routine at your table?
Well, now, when I was in the Corps, it was a different routine, and I sat on the hot corner, which I thought, I loved all that BS.
I thought it was a lot of fun.
And man, we were organized to freshmen.
We were drowning people out.
I mean, the core was made for me because, you know, they had some guy chew on you.
You'd sit there and they'd, you know, say, you're skylarking, mister.
Give me 20, and, you know, you'd rip.
You know, it was like a big game.
What are some of the pranks that you remember that you guys were involved in?
Oh, God, we stayed in things all the time, right up to my senior year.
Percy Mims, you know, who is a friend, but, you know, our junior year, and I wound up going back to the core once they determined that I had absolutely no athletic ability.
When I came, I went to the core and, uh,
I guess my sophomore, the spring semester of my sophomore year, I couldn't run anymore.
And so I got assigned back to an outfit over there.
And there was a guy named Mirsky, who was a ground pounder, and Sammy Myers, who had been, you know,
a basketball player, and he wasn't playing basketball anymore, and who was from Belmont, and I and the three of us ran around together, and we got just about anything you could get into.
What are some of the most original pranks y'all played?
Well, we had a Coke machine that we kept reporting that they wouldn't
And they wouldn't fix it.
So we took it up on top of the dorm and threw it into the quadrangle and got the coke machine replaced.
Kind of destructive but it seemed like an excellent idea at the time.
They had gone out and I think the band had complained because somebody had driven a car across the band's drill.
So they put in this fence out there that was pipe that was about this high.
And we were walking back one night from Eastgate.
There was a place that served beverages over there, and it was rather dark, and we hit that pipe, all of us, and we were, you know, grab ass running around and hit that pipe and, I mean, just knocked the crap out of all of us.
We were on a dead run.
So we moaned and laid around.
Fortunately, nothing was broken.
and it hadn't been in the ground too long, so we managed to get up about 70 feet, pull the concrete and the pipe out of the ground, which,
Then we got down to some point where they poured it the day before and we couldn't get it up.
So we took the end that we did have up and walked it in a circle around the tree because, you know, we had studied physics and wrapped that thing around the tree.
So the next morning it came out and here was their pipe wrapped around the tree, but we had moved it up to height so you could see it and it wouldn't trip anyone anymore.
No one got caught?
Well, of course not.
And, I mean, we got caught for doing enough things without all the things we didn't get.
Did y'all find your way into steam tunnels?
Oh, the steam tunnels.
Let me tell you, when you lived in Hart Hall, the first sign that you were getting near finals is Watson, Don Watson, you know, played football up there.
You would see Watson in the steam tunnels, you know.
You knew he was getting near finals because he was over stealing quits.
That guy named Snake McKeown.
They claimed he was on a golf scholarship.
He didn't know a caddy from a polo pony.
But, uh, Snake was the best second story man in the universe.
And, uh, you know, my fondest memory is one night when he was a kid.
I'm walking past the academic building.
I hear, rains.
I look around, rains.
And I look up and Snake is on the side of the academic building.
And he's got to get up here and get this window open.
I said, where in the hell are you?
He said, somebody's locked the goddamn window.
I can't get back in.
And he was at the stairwell.
He had evidently gone out on the ledge at the stairwell, had gone around to some prof's office to get in.
And he gets back, and they have locked him in.
So I'm in the academic building, you know, at midnight, trying to get a window unlocked to rescue Snake on the ledge up there.
Never asked him what he's doing.
Didn't want to be involved, but Snake was a colorful.
We had a lot of colorful people up there then.
You weren't at A&M any family?
I got there in 59.
Okay, well, Coach Bryant had some rather unique people.
Ken Beck, the mayor of Northgate, he was a player from Louisiana, and Tracy and Andy Hillhouse, he wasn't, he didn't make all conferences in the end, but he was a Southwest Conference street fighting champion.
Then we had a guy that was my suite mate who became a veterinarian and he had been a seal, a Navy seal in Korea and he threw the shot put and the discus.
And he was a big boy with a lot of skills and everyone on the campus
Charlie Krueger one day at practice, he threw the discus and it bounced out there and hit Krueger in the leg.
And he picked that thing up and he said, God damn it, who threw this?
And what was that old boy's name?
I'm getting old.
He turned around and said, I did.
He said, well, I just wanted to let you know you could have hit some of us.
You know, I mean, everybody thought, boy, this is going to be the fight of the century.
Of all of those Starr Bryant football players, which ones did you all respect the most?
Well...
I mean, the only one I disrespected, I caught him twice stealing stuff, was Murray Trimble, the one-armed bandit.
Murray's just kleptomaniac.
You know, he just had a problem, you know.
But, like, Drake Keith was a good... Bobby Drake Keith.
See, my sister married an Aggie, and he was my...
They all went to Church of Christ and Biebs Stallings and Bobby Drake and all that bunch.
So the first week I'm there, Biebs and Bobby Drake come over to see me.
And I'm living in the Corps and they said, you know, we just want to see.
You know, well, everybody in the outfit was really impressed because here's two big studs, you know, there's seniors on the football team.
And, you know, Beeb said, what are you doing living here?
He said, you can't make it back.
You know, he gave me the first lecture, and I'm sure he'd probably talk to Smokey, but anyway.
So, you know, I just thought the sun rose and sat in those guys.
And you have never had licks unless you've had John David Grove give you swats with a broom.
I mean, he can pick you up off the ground.
But, I mean, it's all in good fun.
There was nobody.
Like I say, the only guy that was kind of weird and
and was mean and, you know, would steal or just the kind of guy that wasn't terribly admirable.
And don't put this in because I don't even know if he's lying now, but he was.
Now, I've heard that Coach Claiborne was the person that would go talk to
instructors about athletics, athletes' grades, Jerry Claiborne.
Did you have any interaction?
I was not far, you know.
Man, they didn't, they wouldn't have cared whether I flunked out or not, you know.
I mean, if you were a real athlete, I'm sure you did.
I, you know, Buddy Denton and Dee Kutesh, I saw them, and they.
Why did you have such high regard for those two?
What did they do?
Well, they took an interest in me, you know, and they gave you some advice, they mentored you, and my dad,
My dad was not the kind of guy that ever did any of that.
He'd not been an athlete.
He'd never been around any of that.
It was all kind of foreign to him.
Dad didn't hunt, didn't fish, you know.
He worked all the time, was gone.
So they were, the male relationships that I had.
Bub Phillips, I got to know Bub when I was in high school, and he coached at another high school over there.
But he was the kind of guy, most coaches, you know, just, they like kids.
Kids like them, and you form an attachment, so it was natural for me
to form an attachment with them.
And we had all kinds of things.
And I excelled out there at Junction, you know.
There's lots of different levels of competition than what we were doing.
When I could stay healthy, I could do pretty well.
But, you know, I was light.
And, you know, football, you went both ways then.
And, you know, I was constantly getting my ass drug off because somebody had run over me.